TASKS/ITERATION.md, before:

# Create Iteration Plan

### 1. Understand Feature

Receive a high-level feature description from the user. This may be a single sentence or a paragraph.

### 2. Generate Plan

Generate a detailed iteration plan based on the template below. The plan must distill the user's request and align it with the project's core design principles (elegance, emergence, iteration, dependency management).

- **Analyze Dependencies:** Before writing, consult `PLANS/dependency_stack.md` and `PLANS/design_backlog.md` to determine the feature's correct placement and certainty. Consider cascading uncertainty and assign a provisional certainty tag.
- **Be Specific:** Provide concrete, actionable steps for the graybox implementation and testing protocol.
- **Stay Grounded:** Ensure the plan is realistic and directly addresses the feature request.
- **Gameplay‑First:** For movement/animation/input features, apply the "do no harm" rule—input maps to acceleration, animation layers never steal control, and transitions remain interruptible.
- **Planning Horizon:** Choose a short horizon when uncertainty is high or test cost is low; expand only as certainty rises.

### 3. Save and Propose

Save the generated plan to a new file in the `PLANS/` directory.

- **Filename:** `iteration_[feature_name].md` (e.g., `iteration_tongue_grapple.md`).
- Propose the generated plan to the user for review.

---

### Iteration Plan Template

```markdown
# Iteration Plan: [Feature Name]

### 1. Feature Overview

*   **Description:** (Brief, clear description of the feature.)
*   **Core Principle Alignment:** (How does this feature align with simplicity, elegance, iteration, proceduralism, and gameplay-first control?)

### 2. Design Rationale

*   **Problem/Goal:** (What user-facing problem is this solving or what is the primary goal?)
*   **Hypothesis:** (What is the expected player experience or outcome? How will this feel?)

### 3. Dependencies & Uncertainty

*   **Placement in Stack:** (Where does this feature fit in `dependency_stack.md`? What are its direct dependencies? What will depend on it?)
*   **Certainty Score:** (Estimated certainty: 1-100%. Justify the score based on novelty and dependencies; call out cascading uncertainty.)

### 4. Implementation & Testing Loop

*   **Graybox Scope (The "Stupid Simple Core"):**
    *   (What is the absolute minimum version that can be built to test the core mechanic?)
    *   (What are the key parameters to expose for real-time tuning?)
    *   (For animation/movement: physics-first controller; rotate-to-velocity; acceleration-tilt; transitions are spring-damper and interruptible.)
*   **Testing Protocol:**
    *   (Self-test first; then over-the-shoulder.)
    *   (Stay silent—don’t coach. Ask, "Tell me the story of what just happened.")
    *   (Target sample size per loop: 6–12 across a mix of Kleenex and experienced testers.)
    *   (Avoid leading questions; record metrics if helpful.)
*   **Success Metrics (Definition of "Proven"):**
    *   (How do we know when the graybox is successful? e.g., "Survives 6+ playtests without major negative feedback," "Players intuitively understand the mechanic," "No content restrictions introduced.")
*   **Iteration Cadence & Horizon:**
    *   (Hours/days to next loop; criteria for shortening/lengthening.)

### 5. System Integration

*   **Mechanic Interactions:** (How will this feature interact with other existing mechanics? Where is the potential for emergence?)
*   **Interface & Feedback:** (How will the player understand and interact with this feature? What metaphors will be used? Apply visual hierarchy and redundancy. What is the plan for visual/audio feedback, even in graybox?)

### 6. Risks & Future Work

*   **Potential Risks:** (What are the biggest risks? e.g., "May not feel good without significant tuning," "Could introduce physics instability.")
*   **Content Restrictions:** (Could this feature impose restrictions on future content? e.g., "Requires all levels to have ceilings of a certain height.")
*   **Decision Impacts (Checklist):** (Implementation cost; immaturity burden; critical failure risk; process burden; political/cultural effects; decision cost.)
*   **Backlog Candidates:** (What related ideas have come up that should be captured in `design_backlog.md`?)
```

Commit message:

planning: document skeleton completion and refine task workflow
Update planning documents to reflect the implemented skeleton debug system as stable and introduce new task files for streamlined iteration management, ensuring dependencies are tracked and future features are selected systematically.

- Updated PLANS/dependency_stack.md to mark skeleton debug system as 100% certain and completed, advancing current focus to iteration with skeletal readouts
- Updated PLANS/design_backlog.md to unblock secondary motion and add new skeleton-related items (rest-pose reset, validation hooks)
- Refined existing TASKS files (COMMIT.md, DECOMPOSE.md, ITERATION.md) with improved formatting, constraints, and added quality gates
- Added new TASKS files: NEXT_FEATURE.md for feature selection, UPDATE_BACKLOG.md for backlog maintenance, UPDATE_DEPENDENCIES.md for stack updates
- Added scripts/create_iteration_branch.ps1 to automate feature branch creation

This solidifies the skeleton layer as a stable foundation and enhances the development process for efficient, dependency-aware iterations.

Co-Authored-By: GitHub Copilot &lt;copilot@github.com&gt;

TASKS/ITERATION.md, after:

# Create Iteration Plan

### 1. Create Branch

Run the script to create and switch to a new feature branch.

```powershell
./scripts/create_iteration_branch.ps1 <feature_name>
```

### 2. Understand Feature

Receive a high-level feature description from the user. This may be a single sentence or a paragraph.

### 3. Generate Plan

Generate a detailed iteration plan based on the template below. The plan must distill the user's request and align it with the project's core design principles (elegance, emergence, iteration, dependency management).

- **Analyze Dependencies:** Before writing, consult `PLANS/dependency_stack.md` and `PLANS/design_backlog.md` to determine the feature's correct placement and certainty. Consider cascading uncertainty and assign a provisional certainty tag.
- **Be Specific:** Provide concrete, actionable steps for the graybox implementation and testing protocol.
- **Stay Grounded:** Ensure the plan is realistic and directly addresses the feature request.
- **Gameplay‑First:** Apply the "do no harm" rule—input maps to acceleration; animation layers never steal control; transitions remain interruptible; rotate model to velocity; prefer spring‑damper and cubic interpolation.
- **Planning Horizon:** Choose a short horizon when uncertainty is high or test cost is low; expand only as certainty rises.

### 4. Save and Propose

Save the generated plan to a new file in the `PLANS/` directory, then propose it for review.

- **Filename:** `iteration_[feature_name].md` (e.g., `iteration_tongue_grapple.md`).
- Keep tone concise and direct. Favor clarity over cleverness.

---

### Iteration Plan Template

```markdown
# Iteration Plan: [Feature Name]

### 1. Feature Overview

*   **Description:** (Brief, clear description of the feature.)
*   **Core Principle Alignment:** (How does this feature align with simplicity, elegance, iteration, proceduralism, and gameplay-first control?)

### 2. Design Rationale

*   **Problem/Goal:** (What user-facing problem is this solving or what is the primary goal?)
*   **Hypothesis:** (What is the expected player experience or outcome? How will this feel?)

### 3. Dependencies & Uncertainty

*   **Placement in Stack:** (Where does this feature fit in `dependency_stack.md`? What are its direct dependencies? What will depend on it?)
*   **Certainty Score:** (Estimated certainty: 1-100%. Justify the score based on novelty and dependencies; call out cascading uncertainty.)

### 4. Implementation & Testing Loop

*   **Graybox Scope (The "Stupid Simple Core"):**
    *   (What is the absolute minimum version that can be built to test the core mechanic?)
    *   (What are the key parameters to expose for real-time tuning?)
    *   (For animation/movement: physics-first controller; rotate-to-velocity; acceleration-tilt; spring‑damper transitions; always interruptible.)
*   **Testing Protocol:**
    *   (Self-test first; then over-the-shoulder.)
    *   (Stay silent—don’t coach. Ask, "Tell me the story of what just happened.")
    *   (Target sample size per loop: 6–12 across a mix of Kleenex and experienced testers.)
    *   (Avoid leading questions; record metrics if helpful.)
*   **Success Metrics (Definition of "Proven"):**
    *   (How do we know when the graybox is successful? e.g., "Survives 6+ playtests without major negative feedback," "Players intuitively understand the mechanic," "No content restrictions introduced.")
*   **Iteration Cadence & Horizon:**
    *   (Hours/days to next loop; criteria for shortening/lengthening.)

### 5. System Integration

*   **Mechanic Interactions:** (How will this feature interact with other existing mechanics? Where is the potential for emergence?)
*   **Interface & Feedback:** (How will the player understand and interact with this feature? What metaphors will be used? Apply visual hierarchy and redundancy. What is the plan for visual/audio feedback, even in graybox?)

### 6. Risks & Future Work

*   **Potential Risks:** (What are the biggest risks? e.g., "May not feel good without significant tuning," "Could introduce physics instability.")
*   **Content Restrictions:** (Could this feature impose restrictions on future content? e.g., "Requires all levels to have ceilings of a certain height.")
*   **Decision Impacts (Checklist):** (Implementation cost; immaturity burden; critical failure risk; process burden; political/cultural effects; decision cost.)
*   **Backlog Candidates:** (What related ideas have come up that should be captured in `design_backlog.md`?)
```
