TASKS/IMPROVE/WORKFLOW.md, before:

# Improve Workflow

This diagram shows the unified improvement workflow for code quality, architectural violations, tech debt, and pattern extraction from IMPROVE_BACKLOG.md.

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[SELECT] --> B{Complexity?}
    B -->|Trivial<br/>1-2 pts<br/>Path A| C[EXECUTE]
    B -->|Standard<br/>3-8 pts<br/>Path B| D[PLAN]
    D --> E[REVIEW_PLAN]
    E --> F{Issues?}
    F -->|Major| G[Defer to Backlog]
    F -->|Minor| H[Revise Plan]
    H --> D
    F -->|No| C
    C --> I{Review?}
    I -->|Path A Skip| J[FINALIZE]
    I -->|Path B Review| K[REVIEW_CODE]
    K --> L{Issues?}
    L -->|Yes| M[Fix Code]
    M --> C
    L -->|No| J
    J --> N[Manual Git]
    N --> A
    G --> O[Update Backlog]
    O --> A

    %% Abort path from execution
    C -.->|Too Risky| G
    K -.->|Too Complex| G

    style A fill:#e1f5ff
    style D fill:#e1f5ff
    style E fill:#e1f5ff
    style C fill:#e1f5ff
    style K fill:#e1f5ff
    style J fill:#e1f5ff
    style G fill:#ffe1e1
```

## Tasks

### Primary Workflow
- **SELECT**: Choose one item from IMPROVE_BACKLOG.md based on severity/priority and stability; classify as Trivial or Standard
- **PLAN**: (Standard only) Create branch; analyze impact and risk; write detailed plan with validation checklist
- **REVIEW_PLAN**: (Standard only) Verify plan against principles; check for scope creep and risk vs reward
- **EXECUTE**: Implement the change in logical stages; validate at checkpoints
- **REVIEW_CODE**: (Standard only) Comprehensive code review for correctness, principle alignment, and side effects
- **FINALIZE**: Update IMPROVE_BACKLOG.md (move to Completed section); document learnings; prepare commit message

### Supporting Tasks (Shared)
- **COMMIT**: Format and create git commits following project conventions
- **REVIEW_CODEBASE**: Scan codebase for quality issues to populate IMPROVE_BACKLOG.md

## Workflow Paths

### Path A: Trivial (1-2 points, single file, mechanical)
1. SELECT → Classify as Trivial
2. EXECUTE → Make the fix
3. FINALIZE → Update backlog, prepare commit
4. Manual Git → SELECT

### Path B: Standard (3-8 points, multi-file or architectural)
1. SELECT → Classify as Standard
2. PLAN → Detail the approach
3. REVIEW_PLAN (pass) → EXECUTE
4. EXECUTE → Implement in stages
5. REVIEW_CODE (pass) → FINALIZE
6. Manual Git → SELECT

### Revision Path (Planning Phase)
1. REVIEW_PLAN identifies minor issues → Revise Plan → Re-plan
2. REVIEW_PLAN identifies major issues → Defer to Backlog → SELECT

### Revision Path (Execution Phase)
1. REVIEW_CODE identifies issues → Fix Code → Re-execute
2. REVIEW_CODE (pass) → FINALIZE

### Abort Path (Discovery Phase)
1. During EXECUTE or REVIEW_CODE, discover change is too risky/complex
2. Document learnings → Defer to Backlog → SELECT

## Notes

- **Dual-tier complexity**: Trivial (1-2 pts) skips planning/review; Standard (3-8 pts) gets full workflow
- **Stability requirement**: Only improve systems at ≥70% certainty (check DEPENDENCY_STACK.md tree visualization)
- **Rule of three**: For pattern extraction, need 3+ occurrences unless establishing canonical data source (document exception in plan)
- **No scope creep**: Fix only what's described; track new discoveries separately
- **Stage verification**: Standard changes execute in logical stages with validation between each
- **Manual progression**: Each task initiated manually; user decides when to proceed (except automated trivial path)
- **Learning capture**: Document insights in Completed section (what worked, what to avoid, patterns discovered)
- **Single document**: All improvement phases append to `PLANS/IMPROVE_<name>.md` (description → plan → review → execution → code review → finalization) for complete history
- **Optional branching**:
  - Trivial: Usually work on current branch
  - Standard: Use `improve/<name>` branch for safety
- **Batch opportunity**: FINALIZE notes similar items for future batch processing

## Complexity Classification

**Trivial (Path A: 1-2 points)**
- Remove redundant include
- Fix typo or naming case
- Adjust formatting (single location)
- Remove commented-out code
- Add missing const qualifier (no behavior change)
- Extract file-scope constant (single file)

**Standard (Path B: 3-8 points)**
| Points | Scope | Examples |
|--------|-------|----------|
| 3-4 | Multi-file, simple pattern | Extract helper function used 3+ times, consolidate duplicates |
| 5-6 | Cross-system, architectural | Move type to proper layer, extract interface |
| 7-8 | Complex refactor | Decouple layers, restructure data flow, major pattern extraction |

## Usage

**Entry Point:** User invokes SELECT (e.g., "pick an improvement", "work on tech debt", "fix architecture issue")

**Automated Flow (Trivial):** SELECT → EXECUTE → FINALIZE

**Manual Flow (Standard):** User advances through each stage

**Exit Point:** Agent stops after FINALIZE; user handles git commit

## Integration with Other Workflows

- **From FEATURE workflow**: During feature work, populate IMPROVE_BACKLOG with discovered issues/patterns
- **Interleave improvements**: Run between feature iterations when systems reach stability threshold
- **Prerequisite for features**: Some features may require architectural improvements first (check dependency notes)
- **Batch similar**: Group related trivial fixes for single commit

## Stability Gates

Before selecting an improvement, verify from DEPENDENCY_STACK.md tree structure:
- **70%+ certainty**: System is mature enough to improve safely
- **No active development**: System isn't currently being modified by feature work
- **Proven patterns**: For extractions, "rule of three" verified (3+ uses)

Defer improvements on unstable or actively-changing systems.

## Automation Guidelines

**Path A (Trivial) - Recommended for automation:**
- User invokes SELECT
- Agent auto-progresses: SELECT → EXECUTE → FINALIZE
- User reviews prepared commit, then commits manually

**Path B (Standard) - Manual progression:**
- User explicitly advances each stage
- Allows for thought/planning between phases
- Safer for complex architectural changes

Commit message:

improve: finalize debug draw dependency fix and refine workflow
Completes the improvement workflow for the debug draw app dependency violation by moving the item to completed in the backlog and refining the task documents for better practices.

- Move 'Debug Draw Depends on App' to completed section in IMPROVE_BACKLOG.md
- Add common steps (format, lint, build) to EXECUTE.md
- Simplify FINALIZE.md by removing redundant validation steps
- Update REVIEW_CODE.md and REVIEW_PLAN.md to append reviews to planning document
- Refine SELECT.md and WORKFLOW.md to always create branches

Improvement workflow now emphasizes consistent branching, streamlined validation, and complete documentation in single files.

TASKS/IMPROVE/WORKFLOW.md, after:

# Improve Workflow

This diagram shows the unified improvement workflow for code quality, architectural violations, tech debt, and pattern extraction from IMPROVE_BACKLOG.md.

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[SELECT] --> B{Complexity?}
    B -->|Trivial<br/>1-2 pts<br/>Path A| C[EXECUTE]
    B -->|Standard<br/>3-8 pts<br/>Path B| D[PLAN]
    D --> E[REVIEW_PLAN]
    E --> F{Issues?}
    F -->|Major| G[Defer to Backlog]
    F -->|Minor| H[Revise Plan]
    H --> D
    F -->|No| C
    C --> I{Review?}
    I -->|Path A Skip| J[FINALIZE]
    I -->|Path B Review| K[REVIEW_CODE]
    K --> L{Issues?}
    L -->|Yes| M[Fix Code]
    M --> C
    L -->|No| J
    J --> N[Manual Git]
    N --> A
    G --> O[Update Backlog]
    O --> A

    %% Abort path from execution
    C -.->|Too Risky| G
    K -.->|Too Complex| G

    style A fill:#e1f5ff
    style D fill:#e1f5ff
    style E fill:#e1f5ff
    style C fill:#e1f5ff
    style K fill:#e1f5ff
    style J fill:#e1f5ff
    style G fill:#ffe1e1
```

## Tasks

### Primary Workflow
- **SELECT**: Choose one item from IMPROVE_BACKLOG.md based on severity/priority and stability; classify as Trivial or Standard
- **PLAN**: (Standard only) Create branch; analyze impact and risk; write detailed plan with validation checklist
- **REVIEW_PLAN**: (Standard only) Verify plan against principles; check for scope creep and risk vs reward
- **EXECUTE**: Implement the change in logical stages; validate at checkpoints
- **REVIEW_CODE**: (Standard only) Comprehensive code review for correctness, principle alignment, and side effects
- **FINALIZE**: Update IMPROVE_BACKLOG.md (move to Completed section); document learnings; prepare commit message

### Supporting Tasks (Shared)
- **COMMIT**: Format and create git commits following project conventions
- **REVIEW_CODEBASE**: Scan codebase for quality issues to populate IMPROVE_BACKLOG.md

## Workflow Paths

### Path A: Trivial (1-2 points, single file, mechanical)
1. SELECT → Create branch, classify as Trivial
2. EXECUTE → Make the fix
3. FINALIZE → Update backlog, prepare commit
4. Manual Git → SELECT

### Path B: Standard (3-8 points, multi-file or architectural)
1. SELECT → Create branch, classify as Standard
2. PLAN → Detail the approach
3. REVIEW_PLAN (pass) → EXECUTE
4. EXECUTE → Implement in stages
5. REVIEW_CODE (pass) → FINALIZE
6. Manual Git → SELECT

### Revision Path (Planning Phase)
1. REVIEW_PLAN identifies minor issues → Revise Plan → Re-plan
2. REVIEW_PLAN identifies major issues → Defer to Backlog → SELECT

### Revision Path (Execution Phase)
1. REVIEW_CODE identifies issues → Fix Code → Re-execute
2. REVIEW_CODE (pass) → FINALIZE

### Abort Path (Discovery Phase)
1. During EXECUTE or REVIEW_CODE, discover change is too risky/complex
2. Document learnings → Defer to Backlog → SELECT

## Notes

- **Dual-tier complexity**: Trivial (1-2 pts) skips planning/review; Standard (3-8 pts) gets full workflow
- **Stability requirement**: Only improve systems at ≥70% certainty (check DEPENDENCY_STACK.md tree visualization)
- **Rule of three**: For pattern extraction, need 3+ occurrences unless establishing canonical data source (document exception in plan)
- **No scope creep**: Fix only what's described; track new discoveries separately
- **Stage verification**: Standard changes execute in logical stages with validation between each
- **Manual progression**: Each task initiated manually; user decides when to proceed (except automated trivial path)
- **Learning capture**: Document insights in Completed section (what worked, what to avoid, patterns discovered)
- **Single document**: All improvement phases append to `PLANS/IMPROVE_<name>.md` (description → plan → review → execution → code review → finalization) for complete history; no separate REVIEW documents
- **Always branch**: Create `improve/<name>` branch for ALL improvements (trivial and standard) to isolate work and enable clean rollback
- **Batch opportunity**: FINALIZE notes similar items for future batch processing

## Complexity Classification

**Trivial (Path A: 1-2 points)**
- Remove redundant include
- Fix typo or naming case
- Adjust formatting (single location)
- Remove commented-out code
- Add missing const qualifier (no behavior change)
- Extract file-scope constant (single file)

**Standard (Path B: 3-8 points)**
| Points | Scope | Examples |
|--------|-------|----------|
| 3-4 | Multi-file, simple pattern | Extract helper function used 3+ times, consolidate duplicates |
| 5-6 | Cross-system, architectural | Move type to proper layer, extract interface |
| 7-8 | Complex refactor | Decouple layers, restructure data flow, major pattern extraction |

## Usage

**Entry Point:** User invokes SELECT (e.g., "pick an improvement", "work on tech debt", "fix architecture issue")

**Automated Flow (Trivial):** SELECT → EXECUTE → FINALIZE

**Manual Flow (Standard):** User advances through each stage

**Exit Point:** Agent stops after FINALIZE; user handles git commit

## Integration with Other Workflows

- **From FEATURE workflow**: During feature work, populate IMPROVE_BACKLOG with discovered issues/patterns
- **Interleave improvements**: Run between feature iterations when systems reach stability threshold
- **Prerequisite for features**: Some features may require architectural improvements first (check dependency notes)
- **Batch similar**: Group related trivial fixes for single commit

## Stability Gates

Before selecting an improvement, verify from DEPENDENCY_STACK.md tree structure:
- **70%+ certainty**: System is mature enough to improve safely
- **No active development**: System isn't currently being modified by feature work
- **Proven patterns**: For extractions, "rule of three" verified (3+ uses)

Defer improvements on unstable or actively-changing systems.

## Automation Guidelines

**Path A (Trivial) - Recommended for automation:**
- User invokes SELECT
- Agent auto-progresses: SELECT → EXECUTE → FINALIZE
- User reviews prepared commit, then commits manually

**Path B (Standard) - Manual progression:**
- User explicitly advances each stage
- Allows for thought/planning between phases
- Safer for complex architectural changes
