TASKS/FEATURE/PLAN_IMPLEMENTATION.md, before:

# Decompose Iteration Plan into Implementation Steps

### 1. Review Development Principles

Read `AGENTS.md` to synthesize coding standards and architectural principles. Essential for ensuring implementation steps follow:
-   snake_case naming conventions and file organization
-   Dependency flow (Foundation → Character → Rendering → App)
-   Gameplay-first principles (interruptible transitions, physics-first)
-   Procedural animation patterns (spring-damper, cubic interpolation)

### 2. Identify Target Documents

Extract the feature name from the current git branch name (format: `iteration/<feature_name>`) and locate:
-   Feature description: `PLANS/feature_<feature_name>.md` (high-level goals, constraints, design philosophy)
-   Iteration plan: `PLANS/iteration_<feature_name>.md` (specific scope, implementation approach, graybox details)

### 3. Foundation Architecture Review (CRITICAL)

**Before decomposing, perform a thorough architectural audit to identify existing system states and prevent duplicate/conflicting implementations:**

1.  **Identify All Systems Involved:**
    -   Read the iteration plan's "Graybox Scope" to list all systems the feature touches
    -   Check `PLANS/DEPENDENCY_STACK.md` to verify system placement and dependencies
    
2.  **Audit Current System Ownership:**
    -   For each identified system, search the codebase to find ALL current instances:
        -   Where is the system instantiated? (game_world, controller, etc.)
        -   Where is the system updated?
        -   Where is the system referenced for rendering/debug/GUI?
    -   Search for all references to key system types (e.g., `locomotion_system`, `skeleton`)
    
3.  **Document Current State:**
    -   List all files that currently own or reference each system
    -   Note any duplicate instances (e.g., `game_world.locomotion` AND `controller.locomotion`)
    -   Flag architectural conflicts BEFORE creating implementation steps
    
4.  **Plan Migration/Consolidation:**
    -   If systems need to move ownership (e.g., locomotion from game_world to controller):
        -   Include explicit steps to remove old instances
        -   Include steps to update all references (rendering, GUI, debug draw)
        -   List all files that need changes
    -   If new systems are being added, verify they don't conflict with existing ones

**Example Foundation Audit:**
```
Feature: Primary Skeletal Animation
Systems Involved: skeleton, locomotion, animation_state

Current State Audit:
- skeleton: 
  - game_world.t_pose_skeleton (separate T-pose for display)
  - controller.skeleton (MISSING - needs to be added)
  - Rendered from: runtime.cpp draws game_world.t_pose_skeleton
  
- locomotion:
  - game_world.locomotion (initialized in game_world::init, updated in game_world::update)
  - controller.locomotion (MISSING - needs to be added)
  - Referenced by: debug_draw, character_panel (all pass game_world.locomotion)

Architecture Issues Found:
1. locomotion exists in game_world but needs to be in controller
2. Multiple skeletons will exist - need to consolidate
3. All rendering/debug references point to game_world instances

Required Migrations:
- Remove game_world.locomotion, move to controller.locomotion
- Remove game_world.t_pose_skeleton
- Update runtime.cpp to draw controller.skeleton
- Update all debug_draw calls to use controller.locomotion
- Update character_panel to receive controller.locomotion
```

### 4. Analyze and Decompose

1.  **Read Feature Description:** Read `PLANS/feature_<feature_name>.md` to understand high-level goals, design constraints, and intended player experience
2.  **Read Iteration Plan:** Read `PLANS/iteration_<feature_name>.md` for specific graybox scope and implementation approach
3.  **Analyze Source Code:** Read identified source files (`.h` and `.cpp`) to understand current structure, data flow, and conventions
4.  **Generate Actionable Steps:** Decompose graybox implementation into a checklist of small, atomic, ordered tasks. Each task must be a concrete action on the codebase

-   **Task Specificity:** Each step must be a clear, imperative instruction referencing specific files, functions, and data structures (e.g., "In `character/controller.h`, add a `dash_speed` parameter to the `tuning` struct.").
-   **Include Migration Steps:** If foundation audit found duplicates/conflicts, include explicit removal and reference-update steps
-   **Natural Language First:** Use natural language descriptions and pseudocode to describe logic and algorithms. Avoid writing actual source code in the plan to prevent duplicating implementation effort.
-   **Logical Order:** Sequence tasks logically based on dependencies (e.g., define data structures before creating functions that use them).
-   **Include UI:** Ensure the plan includes a step to expose any new tunable parameters in the debug UI (`src/gui/character_panel.cpp`).
-   **Adhere to Conventions:** Follow `AGENTS.md` (snake_case, file organization, dependency flow; brief comments only where non‑obvious).
-   **Gameplay‑First:** Preserve input→acceleration mapping; rotate model to velocity; transitions remain interruptible. Prefer spring‑damper and cubic interpolation; use targeted IK only where necessary.

### 5. Save and Propose

Format as a markdown checklist and save to `PLANS/` directory.

-   **Filename:** `implementation_[feature_name].md`
-   **If the implementation plan already exists:**
    -   Add a changelog entry at the bottom noting the update date and reason (e.g., "Plan updated after scope modification via MODIFY_PLAN")
    -   Update the checklist to reflect current implementation steps
    -   Preserve completed checkboxes and historical context where relevant
-   Propose the document to the user for review

### 5. Quality Gates

-   Build passes (CMake: Configure/Build Debug tasks)
-   Lint/format clean (clang‑format/clang‑tidy tasks)
-   Smoke run launches and graybox switch is reachable

### Tone & Constraints

-   Concise, imperative instructions
-   Prefer natural language and pseudocode over actual source code
-   Reference specific files, functions, and data structures
-   Adhere to `AGENTS.md` conventions (snake_case, dependency flow)
-   Gameplay‑first: input→acceleration; rotate to velocity; interruptible transitions
-   Prefer spring‑damper and cubic interpolation

---

### Example Implementation Plan Format

```markdown
# Implementation Plan: [Feature Name]

### Graybox Implementation Checklist

#### 1. Data Structures & State

- [ ] **File:** `src/character/character_state.h`
    - [ ] Add `bool is_dashing` flag to the `character_state` struct.
    - [ ] Add `float dash_timer` to the `character_state` struct.

#### 2. Tuning Parameters

- [ ] **File:** `src/character/tuning.h`
    - [ ] Add `float dash_duration = 0.2f;` to the `locomotion_tuning` struct.
    - [ ] Add `float dash_speed = 50.0f;` to the `locomotion_tuning` struct.

#### 3. Core Logic

- [ ] **File:** `src/character/locomotion.cpp`
    - [ ] In `update_locomotion()`, check for dash input
    - [ ] If dash input detected and not already dashing: set `is_dashing = true`, reset `dash_timer`
    - [ ] While `is_dashing == true`: override velocity with `tuning.dash_speed` in input direction
    - [ ] Decrement `dash_timer` by delta time; set `is_dashing = false` when timer reaches zero
    - [ ] Ensure animation/pose transitions use spring‑damper interpolation and remain interruptible

**Pseudocode:**
```
if dash_input_pressed and not is_dashing:
    is_dashing = true
    dash_timer = tuning.dash_duration

if is_dashing:
    velocity = input_direction * tuning.dash_speed
    dash_timer -= delta_time
    if dash_timer <= 0:
        is_dashing = false
```

#### 4. Debug UI

- [ ] **File:** `src/gui/character_panel.cpp`
    - [ ] In the "Locomotion" section, add a new `ImGui::InputFloat` for "Dash Speed".
    - [ ] Add a new `ImGui::InputFloat` for "Dash Duration".
    - [ ] Add a read-only `ImGui::Text` to display the current value of `is_dashing`.

#### 5. Quality Gates

- [ ] Build passes (`CMake: Build (Debug)`).
- [ ] Lint/format clean (run clang-format/clang-tidy tasks).
- [ ] Smoke run compiles and launches (`Run (Debug)`), and feature toggle works.
```

Commit message:

workflow: rename iteration workflow to feature workflow
Standardizes development terminology by replacing iteration with feature across workflow documents, scripts, and references to align with common software development practices and simplify the development cycle.

- Renamed create_iteration_branch.ps1 to create_feature_branch.ps1
- Renamed rchive-iteration.ps1 to rchive-feature.ps1
- Updated all TASKS/FEATURE/ documents to use feature instead of iteration
- Removed obsolete PLAN_ITERATION.md and REVIEW_STEP.md files
- Modified WORKFLOW.md to reflect simplified feature development flow
- Updated branch naming convention from iteration/<name> to eature/<name>

This completes the workflow refactoring, enabling clearer feature-focused development cycles.

TASKS/FEATURE/PLAN_IMPLEMENTATION.md, after:

# Decompose Iteration Plan into Implementation Steps

### 1. Review Development Principles

Read `AGENTS.md` to synthesize coding standards and architectural principles. Essential for ensuring implementation steps follow:
-   snake_case naming conventions and file organization
-   Dependency flow (Foundation → Character → Rendering → App)
-   Gameplay-first principles (interruptible transitions, physics-first)
-   Procedural animation patterns (spring-damper, cubic interpolation)

### 2. Identify Target Documents

Extract the feature name from the current git branch name (format: `feature/<feature_name>`) and locate:
-   Feature description: `PLANS/feature_<feature_name>.md` (high-level goals, constraints, design philosophy, implementation approach)

### 3. Foundation Architecture Review (CRITICAL)

**This is the first detailed system audit.** The feature description identified *what* to build; now identify *exactly where* each piece goes and what needs to move.

**Before decomposing, perform a thorough architectural audit to identify existing system states and prevent duplicate/conflicting implementations:**

1.  **Identify All Systems Involved:**
    -   Read the iteration plan's "Graybox Scope" to list all systems the feature touches
    -   Check `PLANS/DEPENDENCY_STACK.md` to verify system placement and dependencies
    
2.  **Audit Current System Ownership:**
    -   For each identified system, search the codebase to find ALL current instances:
        -   Where is the system instantiated? (game_world, controller, etc.)
        -   Where is the system updated?
        -   Where is the system referenced for rendering/debug/GUI?
    -   Search for all references to key system types (e.g., `locomotion_system`, `skeleton`)
    
3.  **Document Current State:**
    -   List all files that currently own or reference each system
    -   Note any duplicate instances (e.g., `game_world.locomotion` AND `controller.locomotion`)
    -   Flag architectural conflicts BEFORE creating implementation steps
    
4.  **Plan Migration/Consolidation:**
    -   If systems need to move ownership (e.g., locomotion from game_world to controller):
        -   Include explicit steps to remove old instances
        -   Include steps to update all references (rendering, GUI, debug draw)
        -   List all files that need changes
    -   If new systems are being added, verify they don't conflict with existing ones

**Example Foundation Audit:**
```
Feature: Primary Skeletal Animation
Systems Involved: skeleton, locomotion, animation_state

Current State Audit:
- skeleton: 
  - game_world.t_pose_skeleton (separate T-pose for display)
  - controller.skeleton (MISSING - needs to be added)
  - Rendered from: runtime.cpp draws game_world.t_pose_skeleton
  
- locomotion:
  - game_world.locomotion (initialized in game_world::init, updated in game_world::update)
  - controller.locomotion (MISSING - needs to be added)
  - Referenced by: debug_draw, character_panel (all pass game_world.locomotion)

Architecture Issues Found:
1. locomotion exists in game_world but needs to be in controller
2. Multiple skeletons will exist - need to consolidate
3. All rendering/debug references point to game_world instances

Required Migrations:
- Remove game_world.locomotion, move to controller.locomotion
- Remove game_world.t_pose_skeleton
- Update runtime.cpp to draw controller.skeleton
- Update all debug_draw calls to use controller.locomotion
- Update character_panel to receive controller.locomotion
```

### 4. Analyze and Decompose

1.  **Read Feature Description:** Read `PLANS/feature_<feature_name>.md` to understand high-level goals, design constraints, graybox scope, and implementation approach
2.  **Analyze Source Code:** Read identified source files (`.h` and `.cpp`) to understand current structure, data flow, and conventions
3.  **Generate Actionable Steps:** Decompose graybox implementation into a checklist of small, atomic, ordered tasks. Each task must be a concrete action on the codebase

-   **Task Specificity:** Each step must be a clear, imperative instruction referencing specific files, functions, and data structures (e.g., "In `character/controller.h`, add a `dash_speed` parameter to the `tuning` struct.").
-   **Include Migration Steps:** If foundation audit found duplicates/conflicts, include explicit removal and reference-update steps
-   **Natural Language First:** Use natural language descriptions and pseudocode to describe logic and algorithms. Avoid writing actual source code in the plan to prevent duplicating implementation effort.
-   **Logical Order:** Sequence tasks logically based on dependencies (e.g., define data structures before creating functions that use them).
-   **Include UI:** Ensure the plan includes a step to expose any new tunable parameters in the debug UI (`src/gui/character_panel.cpp`).
-   **Adhere to Conventions:** Follow `AGENTS.md` (snake_case, file organization, dependency flow; brief comments only where non‑obvious).
-   **Gameplay‑First:** Preserve input→acceleration mapping; rotate model to velocity; transitions remain interruptible. Prefer spring‑damper and cubic interpolation; use targeted IK only where necessary.

### 5. Save and Propose

Format as a markdown checklist and save to `PLANS/` directory.

-   **Filename:** `implementation_[feature_name].md`
-   **If the implementation plan already exists:**
    -   Add a changelog entry at the bottom noting the update date and reason (e.g., "Plan updated after scope modification via MODIFY_PLAN")
    -   Update the checklist to reflect current implementation steps
    -   Preserve completed checkboxes and historical context where relevant
-   Propose the document to the user for review

### 5. Quality Gates

-   Build passes (CMake: Configure/Build Debug tasks)
-   Lint/format clean (clang‑format/clang‑tidy tasks)
-   Smoke run launches and graybox switch is reachable

### Tone & Constraints

-   Concise, imperative instructions
-   Prefer natural language and pseudocode over actual source code
-   Reference specific files, functions, and data structures
-   Adhere to `AGENTS.md` conventions (snake_case, dependency flow)
-   Gameplay‑first: input→acceleration; rotate to velocity; interruptible transitions
-   Prefer spring‑damper and cubic interpolation

---

### Example Implementation Plan Format

```markdown
# Implementation Plan: [Feature Name]

### Graybox Implementation Checklist

#### 1. Data Structures & State

- [ ] **File:** `src/character/character_state.h`
    - [ ] Add `bool is_dashing` flag to the `character_state` struct.
    - [ ] Add `float dash_timer` to the `character_state` struct.

#### 2. Tuning Parameters

- [ ] **File:** `src/character/tuning.h`
    - [ ] Add `float dash_duration = 0.2f;` to the `locomotion_tuning` struct.
    - [ ] Add `float dash_speed = 50.0f;` to the `locomotion_tuning` struct.

#### 3. Core Logic

- [ ] **File:** `src/character/locomotion.cpp`
    - [ ] In `update_locomotion()`, check for dash input
    - [ ] If dash input detected and not already dashing: set `is_dashing = true`, reset `dash_timer`
    - [ ] While `is_dashing == true`: override velocity with `tuning.dash_speed` in input direction
    - [ ] Decrement `dash_timer` by delta time; set `is_dashing = false` when timer reaches zero
    - [ ] Ensure animation/pose transitions use spring‑damper interpolation and remain interruptible

**Pseudocode:**
```
if dash_input_pressed and not is_dashing:
    is_dashing = true
    dash_timer = tuning.dash_duration

if is_dashing:
    velocity = input_direction * tuning.dash_speed
    dash_timer -= delta_time
    if dash_timer <= 0:
        is_dashing = false
```

#### 4. Debug UI

- [ ] **File:** `src/gui/character_panel.cpp`
    - [ ] In the "Locomotion" section, add a new `ImGui::InputFloat` for "Dash Speed".
    - [ ] Add a new `ImGui::InputFloat` for "Dash Duration".
    - [ ] Add a read-only `ImGui::Text` to display the current value of `is_dashing`.

#### 5. Quality Gates

- [ ] Build passes (`CMake: Build (Debug)`).
- [ ] Lint/format clean (run clang-format/clang-tidy tasks).
- [ ] Smoke run compiles and launches (`Run (Debug)`), and feature toggle works.
```
