TASKS/FEATURE/SELECT_FEATURE.md, before:

# Identify Next Feature

### 1. Review Development Principles

Read `AGENTS.md` to synthesize core project principles. Essential for selecting features that align with:
-   Core loop alignment (movement, physics, feel)
-   Systemic design and emergence over content
-   Smallest scope and tight iteration loops
-   Avoiding content restrictions

### 2. Identify the Frontier
1.  Open `PLANS/DEPENDENCY_STACK.md`.
2.  Locate the `← YOU ARE HERE` marker. The layers at or just below this marker represent the stable foundation—our current frontier of certainty.

### 3. Find Candidate Features
1.  Open `PLANS/DESIGN_BACKLOG.md`.
2.  Scan the backlog for features whose `Prerequisite` is met by the stable frontier you just identified.
3.  Compile a short list of these now-unblocked candidate features.

### 4. Select the "Purest" Feature
1.  From your list of candidates, select the **single best feature** to implement next based on the following criteria, in order of importance:
    *   **Core Loop Alignment:** Which feature most directly enhances the current core gameplay loop of movement, physics, and feel?
    *   **Smallest Scope:** Which feature is the smallest, most self-contained "stupid simple core" that can be grayboxed and tested in a short iteration loop (1-3 complexity points)?
    *   **Most Systemic:** Which feature is a reusable system or mechanic, rather than a one-off piece of content? Does it have the potential for emergent interactions?
    *   **Highest Certainty / Lowest Risk:** Which feature has the highest initial `Certainty` score in the backlog and depends on the fewest *other* uncertain systems?

### 4.5. Problem Evidence Check

**Before writing the feature description**, verify the feature addresses a documented problem or gap:

1.  **Review backlog notes:** Check for warning flags like "may not be necessary," "low priority," or uncertainty about value
2.  **Check for problem evidence:** Has this problem been observed during playtesting? When was it last encountered?
3.  **Yellow flags requiring extra scrutiny:**
    -   Backlog contains uncertainty notes about necessity
    -   Feature is purely "nice to have" without specific gameplay moment motivating it
    -   No documented observation of the problem this feature solves

4.  **If problem evidence is unclear:**
    -   Document the specific gameplay moment or observation that motivates this feature
    -   Example: "During 2025-10-06 playtest, character tilt magnitude felt identical at walk vs sprint speeds, making speed changes harder to read"
    -   If no such moment exists, consider deferring feature or running focused playtest session first

**Purpose:** Prevents premature features (like speed_animation_scaling deferral - backlog warned "may not be necessary" but feature was selected anyway).

### 5. Write High-Level Feature Description

Create a concise, actionable feature description following this structure:

**[Feature Name]**

-   **Core Mechanic:** What is the essential mechanic? (1-2 sentences)
-   **Pattern Reuse:** What proven patterns/systems does this extend or build upon?
-   **Graybox Scope:** 
    -   Minimum testable implementation
    -   Key parameters to expose for tuning
    -   Estimated line count
-   **Minimal Implementation:** Where does it hook into existing code? (e.g., update order, files affected)
-   **Unlocks:** What future features does this enable? What backlog items does it unblock?
-   **Test Loop:** How to verify success? What to test first? Expected iteration time?
-   **Certainty:** Percentage + justification (reference dependencies, novelty, risk)

### 6. Save Feature Description

Save the feature description to `PLANS/feature_<feature_name>.md` (use snake_case, e.g., `feature_primary_skeletal_animation.md`).

### Tone & Constraints

-   Concise, imperative, gameplay‑first
-   Keep it concrete and mechanical (avoid fiction)
-   Mention dependencies and expected test loop length
-   Prefer systemic, reusable mechanics
-   Avoid content restrictions
-   Include line count estimates and specific file/function integration points

---

### Example Feature Description

**Primary Skeletal Animation (Locomotion-Driven Limb Cycles)**

**Core Mechanic:** Distance-phased arm swing and leg stride synchronized to the surveyor-wheel locomotion system. Limbs animate proportionally to distance traveled, not time, ensuring visual coherence with body movement.

**Pattern Reuse:** Extends the proven surveyor-wheel pattern from body bounce to skeletal joints. Phase-offset arm swings (left/right alternate), leg strides synchronized to foot placement, all driven by `locomotion.distance_traveled`. Walk/run pose blending follows existing `walk_factor` logic.

**Graybox Scope:** 
- Simple sinusoidal joint rotations (shoulders, elbows, hips, knees) driven by locomotion phase
- Two keyframe poses: walk stride (small angles) and run stride (large angles)
- Cubic interpolation between poses based on `walk_factor` (already computed)
- Expose tuning parameters: arm swing magnitude, leg stride length, phase offsets

**Minimal Implementation:** ~50-80 lines. Update `character::animation::update()` after orientation, before reactive systems. Inject rotations into `skeleton` joint local transforms. No new state machine—pure procedural.

**Unlocks:** Secondary motion (wobble/follow-through), IK foot placement, realistic limb reactions. This is the missing foundation that blocks multiple backlog items.

**Test Loop:** Visual coherence test—do limbs match body speed? Does stopping feel instant? Does walk-to-run transition smoothly? Self-test in minutes, iterate tuning parameters in real-time via existing animation UI pattern.

**Certainty:** ~80%—direct extension of proven locomotion system. Risk is tuning time, not architecture.

Commit message:

workflow: rename iteration workflow to feature workflow
Standardizes development terminology by replacing iteration with feature across workflow documents, scripts, and references to align with common software development practices and simplify the development cycle.

- Renamed create_iteration_branch.ps1 to create_feature_branch.ps1
- Renamed rchive-iteration.ps1 to rchive-feature.ps1
- Updated all TASKS/FEATURE/ documents to use feature instead of iteration
- Removed obsolete PLAN_ITERATION.md and REVIEW_STEP.md files
- Modified WORKFLOW.md to reflect simplified feature development flow
- Updated branch naming convention from iteration/<name> to eature/<name>

This completes the workflow refactoring, enabling clearer feature-focused development cycles.

TASKS/FEATURE/SELECT_FEATURE.md, after:

# Select and Initialize Next Feature

### 1. Review Development Principles

Read `AGENTS.md` to synthesize core project principles. Essential for selecting features that align with:
-   Core loop alignment (movement, physics, feel)
-   Systemic design and emergence over content
-   Smallest scope and tight iteration loops
-   Avoiding content restrictions
-   Gameplay-first control (input→acceleration, interruptibility)
-   Procedural foundation and animation principles

### 2. Identify the Frontier
1.  Open `PLANS/DEPENDENCY_STACK.md`.
2.  Locate the `← YOU ARE HERE` marker. The layers at or just below this marker represent the stable foundation—our current frontier of certainty.

### 3. Find Candidate Features
1.  Open `PLANS/DESIGN_BACKLOG.md`.
2.  Scan the backlog for features whose `Prerequisite` is met by the stable frontier you just identified.
3.  Compile a short list of these now-unblocked candidate features.

### 4. Select the "Purest" Feature
1.  From your list of candidates, select the **single best feature** to implement next based on the following criteria, in order of importance:
    *   **Core Loop Alignment:** Which feature most directly enhances the current core gameplay loop of movement, physics, and feel?
    *   **Smallest Scope:** Which feature is the smallest, most self-contained "stupid simple core" that can be grayboxed and tested in a short iteration loop (1-3 complexity points)?
    *   **Most Systemic:** Which feature is a reusable system or mechanic, rather than a one-off piece of content? Does it have the potential for emergent interactions?
    *   **Highest Certainty / Lowest Risk:** Which feature has the highest initial `Certainty` score in the backlog and depends on the fewest *other* uncertain systems?

### 4.5. Problem Evidence Check

**Before writing the feature description**, verify the feature addresses a documented problem or gap:

1.  **Review backlog notes:** Check for warning flags like "may not be necessary," "low priority," or uncertainty about value
2.  **Check for problem evidence:** Has this problem been observed during playtesting? When was it last encountered?
3.  **Yellow flags requiring extra scrutiny:**
    -   Backlog contains uncertainty notes about necessity
    -   Feature is purely "nice to have" without specific gameplay moment motivating it
    -   No documented observation of the problem this feature solves

4.  **If problem evidence is unclear:**
    -   Document the specific gameplay moment or observation that motivates this feature
    -   Example: "During 2025-10-06 playtest, character tilt magnitude felt identical at walk vs sprint speeds, making speed changes harder to read"
    -   If no such moment exists, consider deferring feature or running focused playtest session first

**Purpose:** Prevents premature features (like speed_animation_scaling deferral - backlog warned "may not be necessary" but feature was selected anyway).

### 5. Create Feature Branch

Run the script to create and switch to a new feature branch:

```powershell
./scripts/create_feature_branch.ps1 <feature_name>
```

This establishes the workspace before documenting the feature.

### 6. Write Feature Description

Create a comprehensive feature description following this structure:

**[Feature Name]**

-   **Core Mechanic:** What is the essential mechanic? (1-2 sentences)
-   **Pattern Reuse:** What proven patterns/systems does this extend or build upon?
-   **Graybox Scope:**
    -   Minimum testable implementation
    -   Key parameters to expose for tuning
    -   Estimated line count
-   **Minimal Implementation:** Where does it hook into existing code? (e.g., update order, files affected, implementation approach options)
-   **Problem Evidence:** What documented observation or gameplay moment motivates this feature? When was the problem last encountered?
-   **Unlocks:**
    -   Immediate: What does this complete or validate?
    -   Future: What features does this enable? What backlog items does it unblock?
-   **Test Loop:**
    -   How to verify success? What to test first?
    -   Expected iteration time and self-test loop characteristics
-   **Certainty:** Percentage + justification (reference dependencies, novelty, risk)

### 7. Save Feature Description

Save the feature description to `PLANS/feature_<feature_name>.md` (use snake_case, e.g., `feature_primary_skeletal_animation.md`).

The feature description is now complete and serves as the planning artifact. Proceed directly to PLAN_IMPLEMENTATION for granular decomposition.

### Tone & Constraints

-   Concise, imperative, gameplay‑first
-   Keep it concrete and mechanical (avoid fiction)
-   Mention dependencies and expected test loop length
-   Prefer systemic, reusable mechanics
-   Avoid content restrictions
-   Include line count estimates and specific file/function integration points

---

### Example Feature Description

**Primary Skeletal Animation (Locomotion-Driven Limb Cycles)**

**Core Mechanic:** Distance-phased arm swing and leg stride synchronized to the surveyor-wheel locomotion system. Limbs animate proportionally to distance traveled, not time, ensuring visual coherence with body movement.

**Pattern Reuse:** Extends the proven surveyor-wheel pattern from body bounce to skeletal joints. Phase-offset arm swings (left/right alternate), leg strides synchronized to foot placement, all driven by `locomotion.distance_traveled`. Walk/run pose blending follows existing `walk_factor` logic.

**Graybox Scope:** 
- Simple sinusoidal joint rotations (shoulders, elbows, hips, knees) driven by locomotion phase
- Two keyframe poses: walk stride (small angles) and run stride (large angles)
- Cubic interpolation between poses based on `walk_factor` (already computed)
- Expose tuning parameters: arm swing magnitude, leg stride length, phase offsets

**Minimal Implementation:** ~50-80 lines. Update `character::animation::update()` after orientation, before reactive systems. Inject rotations into `skeleton` joint local transforms. No new state machine—pure procedural.

**Unlocks:** Secondary motion (wobble/follow-through), IK foot placement, realistic limb reactions. This is the missing foundation that blocks multiple backlog items.

**Test Loop:** Visual coherence test—do limbs match body speed? Does stopping feel instant? Does walk-to-run transition smoothly? Self-test in minutes, iterate tuning parameters in real-time via existing animation UI pattern.

**Certainty:** ~80%—direct extension of proven locomotion system. Risk is tuning time, not architecture.
